New privacy roadmap page (#18740)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: public/content/roadmap/privacy/index.md

## Private writes prevent censorship and transaction leakage {#private-writes}

Once a transaction is sent, it passes through network infrastructure that can observe or block it before it is recorded onchain. This is where many privacy protocols fail in practice. Large, centralized block builders monitor the mempool and can quietly sideline or censor transactions originating from privacy tools. Even if the underlying cryptography is sound, a transaction that is never included in a block provides no protection.

Two protocol-level upgrades address this problem together:

[**EIP-8141 (Frame Transactions)**](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-8141) introduces a new transaction type that splits transactions into segments for signature validation and fee authorization, and for the actual transaction instructions. Frame transactions allow [smart accounts](/roadmap/account-abstraction/) to define their own signature schemes and use external contracts to cover gas fees. Strict sandboxing rules in the mempool prevent these transactions from opening the network to denial-of-service attacks.

> EIP-8141 is being considered for Ethereum's [Hegotá upgrade](https://forkcast.org/upgrade/hegota/), the next network upgrade after the upcoming [Glamsterdam upgrade](/roadmap/glamsterdam/). The same upgrade will also allow smart accounts to adopt [quantum-safe signatures](/roadmap/future-proofing/quantum-resistance/) before the full post-quantum network transition is complete.

Reviewer: Consider using the "name" here instead of the EIP

```suggestion
Frame transactions are being considered for Ethereum's [Hegotá upgrade](https://forkcast.org/upgrade/hegota/), the next network upgrade after the upcoming [Glamsterdam upgrade](/roadmap/glamsterdam/). The same upgrade will also allow smart accounts to adopt [quantum-safe signatures](/roadmap/future-proofing/quantum-resistance/) before the full post-quantum network transition is complete.
```

<ExpandableCard title="How do frame transactions (EIP-8141) enable privacy?" eventCategory="/roadmap/privacy" eventName="clicked how do frame transactions enable privacy?">

Frame transactions allow accounts to choose their own signature verification method. For privacy, this means users can adopt privacy-preserving signature schemes without waiting for a large-scale, network-wide migration. Frame transactions also allow gas fee abstraction, allowing privacy tools to cover transaction costs without exposing user addresses onchain.

</ExpandableCard>

> [**EIP-7805 (Fork-Choice Enforced Inclusion Lists, or FOCIL)**](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7805) provides the enforcement mechanism for private writes. Block proposers are required by consensus rules to include transactions in their blocks from aggregated local inclusion lists, which collect transactions from multiple sources. If a block builder attempts to censor a transaction that appeared on the inclusion lists, attesting nodes reject the proposed block entirely. EIP-7805 is currently being considered for the [Hegotá upgrade](https://forkcast.org/upgrade/hegota/).

Reviewer: Similar here:

```suggestion
[**EIP-7805 (Fork-Choice Enforced Inclusion Lists, or FOCIL)**](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7805) provides the enforcement mechanism for private writes. Block proposers are required by consensus rules to include transactions in their blocks from aggregated local inclusion lists, which collect transactions from multiple sources. If a block builder attempts to censor a transaction that appeared on the inclusion lists, attesting nodes reject the proposed block entirely. FOCIL is currently being considered for the [Hegotá upgrade](https://forkcast.org/upgrade/hegota/).
```

Could also consider flipping the primary intro statement to emphasize the name over the EIP number, i.e., `[**Fork-Choice Enforced Inclusion Lists, or FOCIL (EIP-7805)**](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7805)`

(Similar suggestion throughout)

> Frame Transactions give users the flexibility to build privacy-preserving transactions with custom signature schemes, while FOCIL ensures those transactions cannot be selectively censored once they enter the mempool. Together they address two different failure points: one enables the format of private transactions, the other guarantees their inclusion. No central actor can block a valid private transfer.

Reviewer: Note on capitalization in consistency.. I'm seeing both "Frame Transactions" and "Frame transactions" -- would just try to be consistent

Private proving connects to the privacy roadmap by enabling verifiable identity without data exposure at the protocol level. While private reads and writes protect transaction metadata, private proving ensures that the identity and eligibility checks required for real-world participation do not require surrendering personal data to centralized verification systems.

On Ethereum's privacy roadmap, private proving is supported by complementary infrastructure tracks, one on the execution layer to make private computation possible at the protocol level, and one on the access layer, which makes private computation practical on consumer devices.

**Zero-knowledge virtual machines (zkVMs)** allow smart contracts to run their logic and generate a cryptographic proof that the work was done correctly. When that proof is truly zero-knowledge, it reveals nothing about the inputs, intermediate state, or outputs, unlocking private computation at the network level.

> The 'zkVM'name carries a nuance; most systems called zkVMs today are succinct rather than zero-knowledge. Their proofs are small and fast to verify, but do not necessarily hide the data used to generate them. Today, only a handful of proving systems provide the hiding property that privacy applications depend on. The [Client-Side Proving benchmarks](https://ethproofs.org/csp-benchmarks) track which zkVMs have been analyzed for actual zero-knowledge in their system properties. Closing that gap is part of the roadmap's private proving work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The "zkVM" name carries a nuance; most systems called zkVMs today are succinct rather than zero-knowledge. Their proofs are small and fast to verify, but do not necessarily hide the data used to generate them. Today, only a handful of proving systems provide the hiding property that privacy applications depend on. The [Client-Side Proving benchmarks](https://ethproofs.org/csp-benchmarks) track which zkVMs have been analyzed for actual zero-knowledge in their system properties. Closing that gap is part of the roadmap's private proving work.
```

Your pick on quotes to use, but space typo needs fixing
